Unless specified, PEBakery is licensed under GPLv3 or any
later version with additional permission.

Some parts of PEBakery is licensed under various license,
specified on a per-file basis or LICENSE file placed in
a subdirectory.
-----------------------------------------------------------
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Hajin Jang

PEBakery is free software: you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation, either
version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. See the  GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
License along with this program. If not, see 
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Additional permission under GNU GPL version 3 section 7

If you modify this program, or any covered work, by linking
or combining it with external libraries, containing parts
covered by the terms of various license, the licensors of
this program grant you additional permission to convey the
resulting work. An external library is a library which is
not derived from or based on this program. 
-----------------------------------------------------------
These parts of PEBakery is licensed under various license.

PEBakery.CabLib
PEBakery.CabLib.Tests
    Apache License, Version 2.0
    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

PEBakery.IniLib
PEBakery.IniLib.Tests
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

PEBakery.TreeLib
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
	
PEBakery.XZLib
PEBakery.XZLib.Tests
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
	
PEBakery.LZ4Lib
PEBakery.LZ4Lib.Tests
    The 2-Clause BSD License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause

ManagedWimLib
ManagedWimLib.Tests
    LGPLv3 License
    https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.en.html

Ookii.Dialogs.Wpf
    The 3-Clause BSD License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause

    Copyright (c) Sven Groot (Ookii.org) 2009
    http://www.ookii.org/Software/Dialogs/
    Updated by Vladimir Svyatski (@vsvyatski)
    https://github.com/vsvyatski/ookii.dialogs

LauncherNative
LauncherSharp
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

XZNet20/XZ.Net.dll
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    https://github.com/RomanBelkov/XZ.NET

XZNet20/liblzma.dll
XZNet20/liblzma64.dll
    Public Domain
    https://git.tukaani.org/?p=xz.git;a=blob;f=COPYING

PEBakery/Helper
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

PEBakery/WPF/Controls/NumberBox.xaml
PEBakery/WPF/Controls/NumberBox.xaml.cs
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

PEBakery/WPF/Controls/DragCanvas.cs
PEBakery/WPF/Controls/EditCanvas.cs
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

PEBakery/WPF/Controls/AutoSizedGridView.cs
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    Derived from http://stackoverflow.com/a/15745082

PEBakery/WPF/Controls/CustomMessageBox.cs
PEBakery/WPF/Controls/CustomMessageBoxUtil.cs
PEBakery/WPF/Controls/CustomMessageBoxWindow.xaml
PEBakery/WPF/Controls/CustomMessageBoxWindow.xaml.cs
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    Copyright (c) 2013 Evan Wondrasek / Apricity Software LLC
    Derived from https://github.com/evanwon/WPFCustomMessageBox

PEBakery/WPF/Controls/ProgressRing.cs
PEBakery/WPF/Controls/ProgressRing.xaml
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    Copyright (c) 2016 MahApps
    Derived from https://github.com/MahApps/MahApps.Metro

PEBakery/WPF/Controls/Donut.xaml
PEBakery/Resources/Donut.ico
LauncherNative/Donut.ico
LauncherSharp/Donut.ico
    CC BY 3.0 US
    https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/us/

    Copyright (c) Numero Uno
    https://thenounproject.com/numerouno/

-----------------------------------------------------------
PEBakery uses Open Source Software (OSS).
This is the list of open source projects and licenses.

BetterWin32Errors
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
    
    Copyright (c) Michael Kropat
    https://github.com/mkropat/BetterWin32Errors

ControlzEx
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
    
    Copyright (c) 2015 Jan Karger, Bastian Schmidt
    https://github.com/ControlzEx/ControlzEx

ZLibWrapper
    zlib license
    https://opensource.org/licenses/Zlib

    Copyright (C) Hajin Jang
    https://github.com/ied206/ZLibWrapper

MahApps.Metro.IconPacks
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    Copyright (c) MahApps
    https://github.com/MahApps/MahApps.Metro.IconPacks

ManagedWimgApi
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    Copyright (c) josemesona
    https://github.com/josemesona/ManagedWimgApi
    
Material Icons
    Apache License, Version 2.0
    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    https://material.io/tools/icons/
    https://github.com/google/material-design-icons

NaturalSort.Extension
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    Copyright (c) 2017 Tomáš Pažourek
    https://github.com/tompazourek/NaturalSort.Extension

Newtonsoft.Json
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    Copyright (c) James Newton-King
    https://github.com/JamesNK/Newtonsoft.Json

NUglify
    The 2-Clause BSD License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause
    Copyright (c) 2016, Alexandre Mutel

    Apache License, Version 2.0
    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    Copyright (c) 2010-2015 Microsoft Corporation

    https://github.com/xoofx/NUglify

RazorEngine
    Apache License, Version 2.0
    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    
    https://github.com/Antaris/RazorEngine

SevenZipExtractor
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    https://github.com/adoconnection/SevenZipExtractor

SharpCompress
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    Copyright (c) Adam Hathcock
    https://github.com/adamhathcock/sharpcompress

sqlite-net-pcl
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    Copyright (c) Krueger Systems, Inc.
    https://github.com/praeclarum/sqlite-net

Svg.Net
    Microsoft Public License (MS-PL)
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MS-PL

    https://github.com/vvvv/SVG

UACHelper
    MIT License
    https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

    Copyright (c) 2016 Soroush
    https://github.com/falahati/UACHelper

-----------------------------------------------------------
